Work Description
As my major project, I have made “WINE QUALITY PREDICTION”.
As the demand for wine has increased in recent years, wine consumption has also increased. With increasing demand, the wine industry is looking for alternatives to quality wines with minimal cost. Different types of wine are produced depending on the conditions and purpose. Although it has not been possible to classify efficiently based on wind properties due to a lack of technology in the industry, the invention of a machine learning approach can now extract feature selections and classify wines based on characteristics.
Work Outcome
As a result, it was possible to identify which sensory attributes affect positively or negatively the wine quality according to consumers’ perceptions. For example, intensity, sweetness, and tannin are the three
prominent contributors to predicting the quality of red wines; on the other hand, intensity, acidity, and sweetness are the best sensory characteristics to find high-quality white wines.
Conclusion
This study implemented and compared tree classification techniques to predict wine quality, namely Random Forest, Multi-layer perceptron and Logistic Regression. As a result, it was possible to identify which sensory attributes affect positively or negatively the wine quality according to consumers’ perceptions. For example, intensity, sweetness, and tannin are the three prominent contributors to predicting the quality of red wines; on the other hand, intensity, acidity, and sweetness are the best sensory characteristics to find high-quality white wines. So we might think that most people generally like wines with high alcohol content and are too monotonous and enthusiastic. High quality is usually associated with low levels of volatile acidity. This means that volatile acidity is a sign of a spoiler and can cause an unpleasant fragrance.# Wine-Quality-Prediction
